Chapter 1: Eyelid
 1. Comprehensive Anatomy & Physiology of the Eyelids
 2. Blepharitis (Chronic Inflammation of Eyelid Margin)
 3. Acute Suppurative Inflammations of Eyelid Glands (Stye & Hordeolum Internum)
 4. Chalazion (Chronic Lipo-granuloma) & Distichiasis
 5. Acquired Misdirected Lashes (Trichiasis & Rubbing Lashes)
 6. Entropion & Ectropion (Lid Margin Malpositions)
 7. Lagophthalmos (Incomplete Lid Closure)
 8. Ptosis (Drooping of Upper Eyelid)
Chapter 2: Lacrimal System
 1. Anatomy of the Lacrimal Secretory System & Tear Film
 2. Anatomy & Physiology of the Lacrimal Drainage System
 3. Watering of the Eye (Lacrimation vs. Epiphora)
 4. Clinical Evaluation and Investigations of Epiphora
 5. Surgical Management of Epiphora
 6. Acute and Chronic Dacryocystitis
 7. Dry Eye Syndrome & Lacrimal Gland Diseases
Chapter 3: Conjunctiva
 1. Normal Anatomy & Histology of the Conjunctiva
 2. Acute Mucopurulent Conjunctivitis (MPC)
 3. Acute Purulent Conjunctivitis (PC / Acute Blenorrhoea)
 4. Ophthalmia Neonatorum
 5. Inclusion & Adenoviral Conjunctivitis
 6. Trachoma (Egyptian Ophthalmia) - Pathogenesis & McCallan's Classification
 7. WHO Classification & Corneal Manifestations / Complications of Trachoma
 8. Vernal Kerato-Conjunctivitis (VKC / Spring Catarrh)
 9. Phlyctenular Kerato-Conjunctivitis & Conjunctival Degenerations
 10. Symblepharon
Chapter 4: Cornea & Sclera
 1. Gross Anatomy & Physiology of the Cornea
 2. Micro-Anatomy & Histological Layers of the Cornea
 3. Classification of Keratitis & Hypopyon Corneal Ulcer (Acute Serpiginous Ulcer)
 4. Complications, Sequelae, and Scar Grading of Corneal Ulcers
 5. Comprehensive Treatment Protocols for Corneal Ulcers
 6. Viral Keratitis: Dendritic Ulcer (Herpes Simplex Virus)
 7. Herpes Zoster Ophthalmicus (HZO) & Fungal Corneal Ulcers
 8. Primary Non-Infective Ulcers: Neurotrophic & Lagophthalmos Keratitis
 9. Keratoconus (Conical Cornea) & Ectatic Ocular Disorders
 10. Keratoplasty (Corneal Graft), Keratorefractive Surgery & Diseases of the Sclera
Chapter 5: Lens
 1. Applied Anatomy, Histology, & Physiology of the Crystalline Lens
 2. Congenital and Developmental Cataract: Etiology, Morphology, and Complications
 3. Acquired Senile Cortical Cataract: Stages and Morphology
 4. Senile Nuclear Cataract and Nuclear Sclerosis Differential Diagnosis
 5. Lens-Induced Glaucomas and Lens Displacements (Ectopia Lentis)
 6. Preoperative Ocular Assessment, Biometry, and Intraocular Lens (IOL) Modalities
 7. Modern Cataract Surgical Techniques and Complications
 8. Traumatic, Complicated, and After-Cataract (Posterior Capsule Opacification)
Chapter 6: Orbit
 1. Anatomy of the Orbit (Walls, Foramina, Sinuses, and Contents)
 2. Orbital Infections: Orbital Cellulitis and Preseptal Cellulitis
 3. Thyroid Eye Disease (TED) & Thyrotoxic Exophthalmos (Graves' Disease)
 4. Cavernous Sinus Thrombosis (Vascular Orbital Lesion)
 5. Proptosis, Enophthalmos, and Atrophia Bulbi
 6. Major Operations of the Orbit (Enucleation, Evisceration, and Exenteration)
Chapter 7: Errors of Refraction (EOR)
 1. Physiology of Ocular Refraction & General Investigations
 2. Myopia (Short-Sightedness)
 3. Hypermetropia (Far-Sightedness)
 4. Astigmatism (Non-Spherical Refractive Error)
 5. Aphakia, Anisometropia, and Presbyopia
Chapter 8: Glaucoma
 1. Anatomy of the Angle, Aqueous Physiology & Intraocular Pressure
 2. Glaucoma Definition & Congenital Glaucoma (Buphthalmos)
 3. Primary Open Angle Glaucoma (Chronic Simple Glaucoma)
 4. Primary Angle Closure Glaucoma (PACG)
 5. Secondary Glaucomas (Systemic, Local, and Phacogenic)
Chapter 9: Uveitis
 1. Anatomy and Physiology of the Uveal Tract
 2. Classification & Etiology of Uveitis (Iridocyclitis)
 3. Clinical Picture & Signs of Acute Anterior Uveitis (Iridocyclitis)
4. Complications and Sequelae of Iridocyclitis
 5. Management of Iridocyclitis & Sympathetic Ophthalmia
Chapter 10: Strabismus
 1. Physiology of Binocular Vision & Apparent Squint
 2. Latent Squint (Heterophoria)
 3. Manifest Paralytic Squint (Incomitant Strabismus)
 4. Manifest Concomitant Squint (Heterotropia)
 5. Examination & Treatment of Concomitant Squint
Chapter 11: Retina
 1. Anatomy of the Retina, Blood Supply, and The Vitreous
 2. Diabetic Retinopathy (DR) & Hypertensive Retinopathy
 3. Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP) & Retinal Vein Occlusions
 4. Central and Branch Retinal Artery Occlusion (CRAO & BRAO)
 5. Retinal Detachment (RD): Rhegmatogenous, Tractional, and Exudative
 6. Retinitis Pigmentosa (Primary Pigmentary Retinal Dystrophy)
Chapter 12: Neuro-ophthalmology
 1. Anatomy of the Optic Nerve and Visual Pathway 
 2. Pupillary Reflexes and Abnormalities
 3. Optic Neuritis (Papillitis and Retrobulbar Neuritis)
 4. Papilledema (Choked Disc)
 5. Optic Neuritis (Papillitis and Retrobulbar Neuritis)
Chapter 13: Ocular trauma
 1. Chemical Ocular Burns (Acid and Alkali Injuries) 
 2. Physical, Thermal, and Radiation Ocular Injuries
 3. The Eyelid Injuries: Ecchymosis, Traumatic Ptosis, & Lacerate
 4. Blunt Injuries & Fractures of the Orbit: Retrobulbar
 5. Blunt Ocular Trauma (Anterior Segment Concussion)
 6. Blunt Ocular Trauma (Posterior Segment and Orbit)
 7. Penetrating Ocular Injuries and Intraocular Foreign Bodies
  